1.What are the benefits of using CSS? 
Ans-CSS plays an important role, by using CSS you simply got to specify a repeated style for element once & use it multiple times as because CSS will automatically apply the required styles.
The main advantage of CSS is that style is applied consistently across variety of sites. One instruction can control several areas which is advantageous.
Web designers needs to use few lines of programming for every page improving site speed.
Cascading sheet not only simplifies website development, but also simplifies the maintenance as a change of one line of code affects the whole web site and maintenance time.
It is less complex therefore the effort are significantly reduced.
It helps to form spontaneous and consistent changes.
CSS changes are device friendly. With people employing a batch of various range of smart devices to access websites over the web, there’s a requirement for responsive web design.
It has the power for re-positioning. It helps us to determine the changes within the position of web elements who are there on the page.
These bandwidth savings are substantial figures of insignificant tags that are indistinct from a mess of pages.
Easy for the user to customize the online page
It reduces the file transfer size.
2. What are the disadvantages of CSS? 
Ans-CSS, CSS 1 up to CSS3, result in creating of confusion among  web browsers.
With CSS, what works with one browser might not always work with another. The web developers need to test for compatibility, running the program across multiple browsers.
There exists a scarcity of security.
After making the changes we need to confirm the compatibility if they appear. The similar change affects on all the browsers.
The programing language world is complicated for non-developers and beginners. Different levels of CSS i.e. CSS, CSS 2, CSS 3 are often quite confusing.
Browser compatibility (some styles sheet are supported and some are not).
CSS works differently on different browsers. IE and Opera supports CSS as different logic.
There might be cross-browser issues while using CSS.
There are multiple levels which creates confusion for non-developers and beginners.
3.What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3? 
Ans-

1	CSS is capable of positioning texts and objects.
 	On the other hand, CSS3 is capable of making the web page more attractive and takes less time to create. CSS3 is backward compatible with CSS.
2	Responsive designing is not supported in CSS
	CSS3 is the latest version, hence it supports responsive design.
3	CSS cannot be split into modules.	
Whereas CSS3 can be breakdown into modules.
4	Using CSS, we cannot build 3D animation and transformation.
	But in CSS3 we can perform all kinds of animation and transformations as it supports animation and 3D transformations.
5	CSS is very slow as compared to CSS3	
Whereas CSS3 is faster than CSS.
6	In CSS we have set of standard colors and it uses basic color schemes only.
	Whereas CSS3 has a good collection of HSL RGBA, HSLA, and gradient colors.
7	In CSS we can only use single text blocks.
	But in CSS3 we can use multi-column text blocks
8	CSS does not support media queries.
	But CSS3 supports media queries
9	CSS codes are not supported by all types of modern browsers.
	Being the latest version, CSS3 codes are supported by all modern browsers.
10	In CSS, designers have to manually develop rounded gradients and corners.
	But CSS3 provides advanced codes for setting rounded gradients and corners
11	There is no special effect like shadowing text, text animation, etc.
         in CSS. The animation was coded in jQuery and JavaScript.
	CSS3 has many advance features like text shadows, visual effects, and a wide range of font styles and colors.
12	In CSS, the user can add background colors to list items and lists, set images for the list items, etc.
	Whereas CSS3 list has a special display property defined in it. Even list items also have counter reset properties.
13	CSS was developed in 1996.
	CSS3 is the latest version of CSS and was released in 2005.
14	CSS is memory intensive.
	CSS3 memory consumption is low as compared to CSS.

4.Name a few CSS style components 
ans-The components of css style are:
1)Selecter:HTML element name, id name, class name.
2)Property:It's like an attribute such as background color,font-size,position,text-align,color,border etc.
3)Values:which defines property or values allocate for properties.
4.• What do you understand by CSS opacity? 
ans-The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.
5.How can the background color of an element be changed? 
ans-To add background color in HTML, use the CSS background-color property. Set it to the color name or code you want and place it inside a style attribute. Then add this style attribute to an HTML element, like a table, heading, div, or span tag.
6.How can image repetition of the backup be controlled? 
ans-To control the repetition of an image in the background, use the background-repeat property. You can use no-repeat value for the background-repeat property if you do not want to repeat an image, in this case, the image will display only once.
7.What is the use of the background-position property? 
ans-The background-position property sets the starting position of a background image. Tip: By default, a background-image is placed at the top-left corner of an element, and repeated both vertically and horizontally.
8.• Which property controls the image scroll in the background? 

ans-The background-attachment property sets whether a background image scrolls with the rest of the page, or is fixed.
9.• Why should background and color be used as separate properties? 
ans
There are two reasons behind this: It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase.Second, color inherits, but background doesn't and 
this would be a source of confusion.
10.How to center block elements using CSS1? 
ans-With css the way to center anything that's a block level element is with the margin property. One of the values of margin is auto and by setting auto on the left and right margin our block level element will center itself
11.How to maintain the CSS specifications?
ans-The CSS specifications are maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).
12.What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
ans-CSS may be added to HTML in three different ways. To style a single HTML element on the page, use Inline CSS in a style attribute. By adding CSS to the head section of our HTML document, we can embed an internal stylesheet. We can also connect to an external stylesheet that separates our CSS from our HTML.
13.What is embedded style sheets? 
ans-An embedded style sheet is declared within the <head> element of an XHTML document. It applies to the whole document, rather than just one element. Each style declaration (or CSS rule) gets applied to everything in the document that matches that rule.
14.What are the external style sheets? 
ans-An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.
15.The advantages of External Style Sheets are:

- Using them, the styles of multiple documents can be controlled from one file.
- Classes can be created for use on multiple HTML element types in many documents.
- In complex situations, selector and grouping methods can be used to apply styles.

The disadvantages of External Style Sheets are:

- In order to import style information for each document, an extra download is needed.
- Until the external style sheet is loaded, it may not be possible to render the document.
- For small number of style definitions, it is not viable.
16.What is the meaning of the CSS selector? 
ans-A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.
17.What are the media types allowed by CSS? 
ans.Value	Description
all	Used for all media type devices
print	Used for printers
screen	Used for computer screens, tablets, smart-phones etc.
speech	Used for screenreaders that "reads" the page out loud
18.What is the rule set?
ans-A CSS ruleset is various affirmations to various pieces or elements of the document. The objective is to apply a bunch of properties for certain distinct qualities to a solitary, or a particular arrangement of components in the connected HTML page. 



html5
1.What are the new tags added in HTML5?
ans-audio
canvas
command
datalist
details
embed
figcaption
figure
footer
header
hgroup
keygen
mark
math
meter
nav
output
progress
rp
rt
ruby
section
source
summary
svg
time
track
video
wbr
2.• How to embed audio and video in a webpage? 

ans.To embed audio in HTML, we use the <audio> tag.This tag supports Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Opera, and Edge in three audio formats – MP3, WAV, OGG. Only Safari browser doesn’t support OGG audio format.

Syntax:
<audio>
    <source src="file_name" type="audio_file_type">
</audio>
To embed video in HTML, we use the <video> tag. It contains one or more video sources at a time using <source> tag. It supports MP4, WebM, and Ogg in all modern browsers. Only Ogg video format doesn’t support in Safari browser. 

Syntax

<video>
    <source src="file_name" type="video_file_type">
</video>
3.What are semantic elements in HTML5?
ans
Semantic HTML elements are those that clearly describe their meaning in a human- and machine-readable way. Elements such as <header> , <footer> and <article> are all considered semantic because they accurately describe the purpose of the element and the type of content that is inside them.
<article>
<aside>
<details>
<figcaption>
<figure>
<footer>
<header>
<main>
<mark>
<nav>
<section>
<summary>
<time>
4.Canvas and SVG tags 
ans.SVG: 
The Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is an XML-based image format that is used to define two-dimensional vector-based graphics for the web. Unlike raster image (Ex .jpg, .gif, .png, etc.), a vector image can be scaled up or down to any extent without losing the image quality.

An SVG image is drawn out using a series of statements that follow the XML schema — that means SVG images can be created and edited with any text editor, such as Notepad. There are several other advantages of using SVG over other image formats like JPEG, GIF, PNG, etc.

Canvas: The HTML element is used to draw graphics on the fly, via scripting (usually JavaScript).
 The element is only a container for graphics. You must use a script to actually draw the graphics. Canvas has several methods for drawing paths, boxes, circles, text, and adding images.
